All right here's another problem here.
It's called relating powers.
The problem with our numbers I would know who didn't put any numbers in this one so it is a circuit.
We have three resistors.
This is our one our two and our three are simply two times R1.
Just write it like this.
OK.
Now if p is the power delivered to our one what is the power delivered to our two and our three from.
So how do we solve a problem like this.
Well I think what I would first do is I would just assume there numbers there and what would I do if
there were numbers there I would probably calculate what the power is.
So in order to calculate what the power is you need to find what is the current everywhere.
So let's find the current everywhere in this section.
Now the curve is not going to be a number it's going to be written in terms of our one maybe are two
and three in the MFA of power supply.
So let's go ahead and do that first thing I would do is I would combine both of these.
These are in parallel with each other.
If I combine both of those kind of group them together you multiply them and divided by the sum.
What do you get called that are equivalent when you multiply them you get 4 R1 squared.
Divide by the sum you get four are one force cancel out our one cancels out look at that you're left
with R1.
So both of those that each had a value of two times are one.
Anyway they get when you combine them in parallel.
They're equivalent to simply one are one.
So this total circuit over here can be simplified now because I simply have are one that is in series
with another R1.
So the total thing here the simple equivalent circuit is simply an equivalent resistance equal to two
R1.
And this is still the method of battery.
So that automatically tells you now that the current
simply the MF of the battery divided by the total equivalent resistance which is two times R1.
OK.
So that's the current.
So now if you wanted to write down an expression of what is the power now for example being delivered
by the battery let's calculate that.
So the power being delivered by the battery or by the E-Myth is the value of the IMF multiplied by the
current current which is calculated.
So at the end you simply square the EMI for the battery divided by two times that resistance one.
That's the power being delivered by the battery.
All right let's calculate the expression now what is the power being delivered in this resistance over
here.
Well again the power being dissipated by that resistance are one.
It's the value of the resistance R1 multiplied by the current squared the current.
We just calculated the same current whatever current was flowing through my equivalent resistance is
the same current flowing through this resistance R1.
All right.
Now take care of everything here.
We get square.
This becomes for this becomes our one squared.
You can cross out one of those.
So you're left with over for a four or one.
And actually what we're doing here in the problem they call this the power that is the power delivered
to our one.
So this here is actually the power of call that PR one but this is really what they are it's defined
in the problem.
So if that's my power how much power is delivered to each one of those well.
Do we know how much current is flowing through each one of those.
Well think about here we have a junction and we have how much current Over here we have that current
coming into the junction.
So it has to be the same current now flowing out of the junction or whatever goes in.
We know this is what's going in.
And now if these resistors are the exact same that means that this current is simply going to split
in half.
That's the only way you can have the same voltage across each resistor because they're all the same.
So the voltage must split in equal parts so that means that the current up here let's call it maybe
to this current Aitu is simply going to be this guy I divided by two.
This is the current Aitu flowing in each branch.
So that means you can calculate the power being dissipated for example by the resistor are two.
So it's the value of the resistance which is two times are one.
That's what R2 is defined as multiplied by the current squared.
Now the currents squared was a what.
Well it's I too was going to write it like this.
Just substitute the entire thing in there it's not over to our one because don't forget I'm dividing
by two.
So the current is actually for our one and I have to square it.
Right now we have to take care of everything so we have to our one and we have e squared before turns
into 16 after I square it.
And here I have our 1 squared.
Now you can cross out a bunch of things and cross out this you're left with eight in cross out this
are one you're left with this one.
Now clean things up a little bit.
You get enough of the battery squared.
And at the bottom here you still have my eight and R 1.
So this is the power being dissipated by the resistance are two.
It's also equal to the power dissipated by the resistance are three because they're the exact same value
and actually now if you check it out it should work out right.
Remember this was the power being delivered by the battery.
This is the power being dissipated in the resistance are one.
We have two of these.
Two of those powers that are being dissipated by those resistances are two and are three.
Actually if you add both of these up you should get this value.
Check it out for yourself so you going to get a quarter here.
You get two eighths over here that's another quarter or a quarter and a quarter gives you a half.
So that's all going to work out.
So now if you relate this power to the other one it's simply going to be half right.
So each one of those is simply the power be divided by 2.
So if p is the power delivered to our one that means P over to is being delivered to each one of these
resistors.
All right well hopefully you've got that one.
Sometimes these can be a little bit complicated but I always suggest just assume there are numbers there
and just precede the exact same way you normally would except this time you just have to keep all the
variables of the way they are.